Hello everyone and welcome to the distributed training section of the course in this section we will
talk about the ways on how to train a single model on multiple Jeep use computers or even servers.
The first question is why do we need distributed training at all when we have a complex machine learning
model.
It can take days or even weeks to complete the training process did it through with the training is
here to help us decrease the training time as much as possible having multiple GP use at our disposal
for a single model training it can decrease the training time of a model from a week to a few hours
there are two main categories of distributed strategies synchronous and as cross the synchronous strategies.
Generally train models on the different parts of the data set at the same time and at the end of one
epoch those gradients are aggregated and use to update one model but in the synchronous strategies all
workers are training at the same time independently and updating wait and see chronically let's talk
about the most common distributed strategies that we can find in that as a flow 2.0 the first one is
the mirrored strategy we will use this strategy in the section as well we start by defining a model
on a single computer or in our case Google colored.
Now let's see how this mirrored strategy is going to help us in decreasing the training time these strategies
use when we have multiple devices on a single computer multiple GP use or CPE use and it leverages all
of them by creating a copy of the same model for each device.
In the end we will end up with as many copies of the model as the number of devices on that computer
each will train independently and at the end of one epoch it will consider all weights and Abdi the
main copy of the model the aggregation of weights in the most cases is done on the CPO or on the specific
dedicated GPO for that.
But sometimes you're going to have multiple servers or computers where each could have multiple devices
on its own how to scale this strategy to that level.
And that's where the next strategy comes into play.
Multi workers Myriad's strategy in this case we still have a primary model but now it is not replicated
for each device but for each computer in the network where each machine is called a worker each worker
could have multiple devices.
In that case it works the same way that mirrors strategy worked.
And at the end of one epoch we consider all versions of the model to update the primary one before we
finish with this video.
Let's mention a few more strategies that exist.
We have a strategy which is primarily used for JCP or Google Cloud Platform because they have deep use
on their servers and we have these parameter server strategy and that's it.
I know that all of this sounds very scary and complicated but in reality we can implement these strategies
in a single line of code.
Stay tuned for that and if you have any questions or comments so far please post them in the comments
section otherwise I'll see in the next tutorial.